# Baseball Hall of Fame Predictor Project
Data Source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/open-source-sports/baseball-databank?resource=download&select=Batting.csv

Project Website: https://ethanlabombard-cmse830-fds-projecthome-kyhsmm.streamlit.app/

I chose to use the batting dataset, the pitching dataset and the hall of fame dataset for this project. This decision was made beacuse baseball is a great sport and not only is fun to watch, but is also a very statistics driven sport as well. These datasets in particular were chosen because they include data across many years of the league and have statistics for batters, pitchers, and hall of fame inductees. Overall, these datasets were chosen for their useful applications in predicting whether a player will be inducted into the hall of fame.

From the IDA/EDA process I learned that for the baseball data there are many loose correlations between the different statistics and whether a player made the hall of fame. It would seem to me that a combination of some statistics will be the best way to make predictions due to some players having good averages in a low low sample size. Another thing observed during the IDA/EDA process is that pitchers who batted and batters who pitched are a confusing factor in the process. Historically pitchers had to bat in baseball, this meant that these pitchers would typically have very poor batting statistics, but may have made the hall of fame due to their great pitching statistics. The same works the other way, in some games if the score is very lopsided, a player who is not a pitcher and is typically a batter my pitch some innings of a game to rest pitchers. This will lead to some batters who made the hall of fame having some very poor pitching statistics. Another factor encountered was the addition of certain statistics to the game as time has progressed. An example of this is the intentional walk which historically was ruled as a walk but in 1955 a new statistic was created for an intentional walk which has led to some data cleaning decisions. Overall, the IDA/EDA process has revealed many interesting factors within the data that has been addressed in the preprocessing steps.

To this point there has been many preprocessing steps that have been completed for this project, one of these is a K-NN evaluation for missing data. In this dataset, there are some columns that include missing data for player statistics that were not recorded in some years. Another preprocessing step that was taken was to drop certain players that have NaN values for games, these players were on the roster but never actually played in a game, so adding these players to the evaluation is unnecessary. 

So far in streamlit I have created four different pages, the first is a homepage that describes the project and explains how to use the app. The second page is a dataset page that includes plots that shows missingness of the data and gives a readout of some of the data. The third page is the batters page which will focus on diplaying some of the batters information and plots as it pertains to induction into the hall of fame. The fourth page includes information on the pitchers and includes all the plots that are related to the pitchers and their hall of fame status. In addition to the pages, I have added some interactive selectors and sliders to the different plots and data read outs to give the app a more interactive feel.